add extra information into exception reporting (#373)
riscv/riscv-cheri: src/riscv-integration.adoc

| 3-15                      | Reserved
|==============================================================================

//.Encoding of CAP_IDX field
//[#mtval-cheri-cap-idx,width=65%,float="center",align="center",options=header,cols="30%,70%"]
//|==============================================================================
//| CHERI CAP_IDX Code        | Description
//| 0                         | Faulting cap was c0
//| 1                         | Faulting cap was c1
//| ...                       |
//| 30                        | Faulting cap was c30
//| 31                        | Faulting cap was c31
//| 32                        | Faulting cap was <<ddc>>
//| 33                        | Faulting cap was <<pcc>>
//| 34-63                     | Reserved
//|==============================================================================

> 

Author: feel free

> 

Author: done

. Invalid address violation
. Bounds violation (_Lowest_)

[#mtval2,reftext="mtval2"]
==== Machine Trap Value Register 2 (mtval2)

The <<mtval2>> register is an MXLEN-bit read-write register, which is added as part of the
Hypervisor extension. {cheri_base_ext_name} also requires the implementation of this CSR.

When a CHERI fault is taken on any data memory access into into M-mode, <<mtval2>> is written

> with the MXLEN-bit address which caused the fault. This can be used together with the

Reviewer: Why address is that? For example, if I load 4 bytes from address 0x10, but only bytes at 0x10 and 0x11 are in bounds while 0x12 and 0x13 are out-of-bounds, then what address do I get in mtval2? Is it 0x10 or 0x12 (or something else!)?

Author: the load/store address, which would normally be in mtval. the lowest byte of the access

Author: fixed - it follows the standard Xtval rules

CAP_IDX field of <<mtval>> to diagnose the authorising capability which caused the
exception.

> <<mtval2>> is set to zero for all PCC faults, and follows the standard rules for non-CHERI exceptions.

Reviewer: By PCC faults, do you mean faults for checks where the authorising capability is PCC?

Author: `PCC fault` is already in the doc

. Invalid address violation
. Bounds violation (_Lowest_)

[#mtval2,reftext="mtval2"]
==== Machine Trap Value Register 2 (mtval2)

The <<mtval2>> register is an MXLEN-bit read-write register, which is added as part of the
Hypervisor extension. {cheri_base_ext_name} also requires the implementation of this CSR.

When a CHERI fault is taken on any data memory access into into M-mode, <<mtval2>> is written

> with the MXLEN-bit address which caused the fault. This follows the existing rules for reporting

Reviewer 2: The priv spec calls this register "Machine bad guest physical address.", so we probably want to clarify that we are writing the virtual address here?

Reviewer 2: hmm in the hypervisor spec chapter it is listed as "Machine Second Trap Value (mtval2) Register" which makes a lot more sense. 

I might send a PR to the ISA manual to change that in `2.2. CSR Listing`.

Author: for the purpose of this spec it's the "effective address", as reported in Xtval if there's (e.g.) a page fault

Author: I've added the word "effective" to clarify

. Invalid address violation
. Bounds violation (_Lowest_)

[#mtval2,reftext="mtval2"]
==== Machine Trap Value Register 2 (mtval2)

The <<mtval2>> register is an MXLEN-bit read-write register, which is added as part of the
Hypervisor extension. {cheri_base_ext_name} also requires the implementation of this CSR.

When a CHERI fault is taken on any data memory access into into M-mode, <<mtval2>> is written
with the MXLEN-bit effective address which caused the fault. This follows the existing rules for reporting

> load/store addresses to <<mtval>> from [riscv-priv-spec].

Reviewer: Fix broken citation.
```suggestion
load/store addresses to <<mtval>> from cite:[riscv-priv-spec].
```

//This reported address can be used together with the CAP_IDX field of <<mtval>> to diagnose the

> //authorising capability which caused the exception.

Reviewer: Could we remove the comment before merging?

Author: feel free

> <<mtval2>> is set to zero for all PCC faults, and follows the standard rules for non-CHERI exceptions.

Author: ```suggestion
<<mtval2>> is set to zero for all other CHERI exceptions, and follows the standard rules for non-CHERI exceptions.
```

TYPE is a CHERI-specific fault type that caused the exception while CAUSE
is the cause of the fault. The possible CHERI types and causes are encoded as
shown in xref:mtval-cheri-type[xrefstyle=short], xref:mtval-cheri-cap-idx[xrefstyle=short] and
xref:mtval-cheri-causes[xrefstyle=short] respectively.

[#stval2,reftext="stval2"]

> ==== Supervisor Trap Value Register 2 (stval2)

Reviewer: I guess we will need a vstval2 for hypervisor

Reviewer: Would also be good to add a diagram for it just like with the other registers

[#stval-format]
include::img/stvalreg.edn[]

The fields are identical to <<mtval>> for CHERI exceptions.

[#stval2,reftext="stval2"]
==== Supervisor Trap Value Register 2 (stval2)

The <<stval2>> register is an SXLEN-bit read-write register.

The CSR address is 0x24b.

> When a fault is taken into S-mode <<stval2>> is updated as for <<mtval2>> for all CHERI memory access traps.

Reviewer: The mtval2 case says this:
> mtval2 is set to zero for all PCC faults

Which is a little different to saying that its only updated for CHERI memory access faults. It would be good to be a little more precise in the intention for both of these registers (I was trying to hint at this in an earlier comments although I did not do it very well!)

Author: clarified

> When a fault is taken into S-mode <<stval2>> is updated as for <<mtval2>> for all CHERI memory access traps.

Author: ```suggestion
When a fault is taken into S-mode <<stval2>> is updated as for <<mtval2>> for all CHERI exceptions.
```

The <<stval2>> register is an SXLEN-bit read-write register.

The CSR address is 0x24b.

When a fault is taken into S-mode <<stval2>> is updated as for <<mtval2>> for all CHERI memory access traps.
It is set to zero in all other cases.

NOTE: This is not a standard RISC-V CSR, but <<mtval2>> is. 0x14b is the regular location for the CSR.

<<stval2>> holds the same set of values that <<mtval2>> can hold.

.Supervisor trap value register 2
[#stval2-format]
include::img/stval2reg.edn[]

[#vstval2,reftext="vstval2"]

> ==== Virtual Supervisor Trap Value Register 2 (vstval2)

Reviewer 3: Should this go with the hypervisor extension support rather than the base CHERI support CSRs?

Author: done

The <<vstval2>> register is an SXLEN-bit read-write register.

The CSR address is 0x24b.

When a fault is taken into VS-mode <<vstval2>> is updated as for <<mtval2>> for all CHERI memory access traps.
It is set to zero in all other cases.

NOTE: This is not a standard RISC-V CSR, but <<mtval2>> is. 0x24b is the regular location for the CSR.

<<vstval2>> holds the same set of values that <<stval2>> can hold.

.Virtual supervisor trap value register 2
[#vstval2-format]

> include::img/vstval2reg.edn[]

Reviewer 3: Maybe I missed it. Where is img/vstval2reg.edn ?

Author: I missed it - it's committed now - hopefully the build will work as a result
